# Clean Stale Secrets

There are a large number of Secrets in the `cattle-impersonation-system` namespace of the downstream cluster that were not cleaned up by Rancher’s clean-stale-secrets mechanism.

The reason is that the current cleanup logic first checks the `rancher.io/service-account.secret-ref` annotation on the ServiceAccount (SA) and directly retrieves the corresponding Secret by name. If the SA does not have this annotation, it falls back to matching Secrets via the `cattle.io/service-account.name` label.

However, SAs created in older versions do not contain the `rancher.io/service-account.secret-ref` annotation, and the corresponding Secrets created by older versions also do not have the `cattle.io/service-account.name` label. As a result, during the first access after the upgrade, neither lookup path can match the old Secrets. The code then creates a new Secret in the updated format and updates the SA’s `rancher.io/service-account.secret-ref` annotation to point to the newly created Secret.

Since the ServiceAccounts corresponding to the old Secrets still exist, Kubernetes’ garbage collection mechanism will not delete those old Secrets. In practice, however, they are no longer referenced by any objects and remain as stale resources.

At present, they can only be cleaned up manually. You may follow the steps below in the affected cluster. The script will generate the corresponding deletion commands, which will need to be executed manually.

## Usage

1. Back up all Secrets:

```bash
kubectl -n cattle-impersonation-system get secret -oyaml > secrets_backup.yaml
```

2. Execute the script:

```bash
bash ./clean_stale_secrets.sh
```
   
3. Run the commands generated by the script.

4. Monitor the cluster for a period of time to check whether any users report issues.

5. If no problems are observed, delete the temporary files:

```bash
rm -f /tmp/annotation_secrets.txt /tmp/array_secrets.txt /tmp/referenced_secrets.txt /tmp/all_token_secrets.txt /tmp/secrets_to_delete.txt
```
